The first time I visited the little house was many years ago on business. I brought a message from Colonel who was the owner of the house to his wife and daughter. That first visit I remember very distinctly. It would be impossible, indeed, to forget it.

"My daughter," chanted the little lady, "and, *Manetchka*, this is a young gentleman who has come," etc.

After supper the little lady showed the vestment which *Yegor Semyonitch* was embroidering with his own hands as an offering for the Church. *Manetchka* threw off her shyness for a moment and showed me the tobacco-pouch she was embroidering for her father. When I pretended to be greatly struck by her work, she flushed crimson and whispered something in her mother's ear. The latter beamed all over, and invited me to go with her to the store-room. There I was shown five large trunks, and a number of smaller trunks and boxes.

"We have had a terrible loss," she said. "My husband, you know, is dead. We are alone in the world now, and have no one but ourselves to look to. *Yegor Semyonitch* is alive, but I have no good news to tell of him. They would not have him in the monastery on account of -- of intoxicating beverages. And now in his disappointment he drinks more than ever. I am thinking of going to the Marshal of Nobility to lodge a complaint. Would you believe it, he has more than once broken open the trunks and . . . taken *Manetchka*'s trousseau and given it to beggars. He has taken everything out of two of the trunks! If he goes on like this, my *Manetchka* will be left without a trousseau at all."

"What are you saying, mamam?" said *Manetchka*, embarrassed. "Our visitor might suppose . . . there's no knowing what he might suppose. . . . I shall never -- never marry."

*Manetchka* cast her eyes up to the ceiling with a look of hope and aspiration, evidently not for a moment believing what she said.

A little bald-headed masculine figure in a brown coat and goloshes instead of boots darted like a mouse across the passage and disappeared. "*Yegor Semyonitch*, I suppose," I thought.

And where was the daughter? Where was *Manetchka*? I did not ask. I did not dare to ask the old mother dressed in her new deep mourning. And while I was in the room, and when I got up to go, no *Manetchka* came out to greet me. I did not hear her voice, nor her soft, timid footstep. . . .
